Now, I'm asking if you're all going to attend
this retreat.  Even though the organizers prohibited
or told you not to be affectionate,
right?  There may not be any
romantic gestures between the two of you, but that
certainly can't stop
feelings from developing, right?  So,
ma'am, is there anything wrong with having romantic feelings in a
temple?  And if someone at
home already has a boyfriend/girlfriend, but then comes up
here and develops feelings for
another person, is that okay
?   I
respectfully address you, teacher.  Dear
friends, this is the question the monk asked, and it's exactly what
you all wanted to hear, right?
The mind knows no boundaries.  It has
no borders.  It's not in a temple
that the feeling of love doesn't emanate.  Or maybe it's only
in a nightclub that he can truly fall in love.
But the love in their hearts is always
present everywhere, at all times, and in all places.
Do you agree?
Whenever a woman sees a man, she develops
feelings for him.  Whenever a man sees a woman, he
develops feelings for her
.  The Buddha called that the karma of attachment.
But this is something that can't be controlled
.  Right?  If you let your emotions get the better of you, you
won't be able to control yourself, kids.  But
now I have to use my brain.  With our
intellect, we can control our minds
.  When you're in a temple, you have to obey the
monks.
This place is a place where men and women should not touch each
other.  That means the two sides cannot physically love
each other, hold hands,
or confess their love.  Do you agree
?
There.  So, while at the temple, you just need to
observe whether your mind is feeling
liking or disliking something.  Like
someone who tracks their urge to go to the bathroom.
It's only allowed to be observed, not
practiced.  Do you understand?
There.
If you practice here, your mental state
will be affected.  very large.  When
couples confess their love and start dating in a
temple, their love for others
becomes uncertain, marital discord arises, and their
married life becomes miserable.
So, isn't there permission and
discrimination everywhere?  At the temple,
this is the responsibility of the guardian deities
.  Therefore, when we go to the temple, we
don't have the same position as the monks, who are here to
sever ties of attachment in order to practice
asceticism and become saints or Buddhas.
Those who practice asceticism and attain Buddhahood
must fight against
their own desires to become pure and
clean.  Do you understand?  Do you see how your
feelings of love are dragging
you into suffering?
They love me so much.  It's like a
wife who loves her husband too much and feels the need to
control him wherever he goes.  A husband who loves his wife
so much that he feels the need to control her wherever she goes.
Therefore, that is the bondage that causes
suffering.  As for the teachers, they completely cut
off all attachments,
freeing themselves from dependence on anything and eliminating
suffering.  So here, the guardian deities
also have the job
of severing attachments for everyone.  So, if they
got married right there in the temple, of course they
wouldn't be happy when they got home.
Do you agree?  He falls in love with one girl and then
dumps her; he marries one man or
another and then causes trouble so they end up separating.
That's the law of cause and effect.  Do you understand, kids?
Then don't be foolish enough to engage in romantic intimacy at the
temple.  Understood?
That's how expensive it is.
Yes.
Yes.  Thank you, ma'am.  So, you all
know what to do, right?
If feelings do develop, just keep
watching, okay?  We can discuss anything else
later.  It's the same here at the temple.
In the plays, the teachers told the
students that they weren't allowed to hug each other on
stage.
It even includes scenes that are quite sentimental, but whether they're
playing a mother or a child, they're
not allowed to hug each other intimately on
stage.  Remember that, everyone.  Then came the
graduation day, which was quite emotional, was
n't it?  Even if there's sadness, longing, and memories, and we're
parting ways tomorrow, you're still not allowed to hug
in the main courtyard of the temple.
Do you all agree?  You have to agree, whether you like it or not
.  This is for my own benefit
.  Yes, ma'am.
Regarding this matter of relationships, I want to
give you some more insight.
Do you want to continue?
This is a question the teacher is asking on behalf of the
students.  Because in previous courses, students
sent these questions but
didn't have a chance to ask them.  She's available here today.
We've struck gold!  Just
ask.  Yes.  Excuse me, ma'am.  Regarding
romantic relationships, why
would someone have feelings for multiple people at the same time?
Is that something to be ashamed of?
And if you're in love with someone,
should you rush to confess your feelings
?  Yes, ma'am, please help them
.
Yes.
Respectfully, Master.  Have any of you here
ever felt
attracted to many people at once
?  Yes, that's right
.  So, her answer just now was that if she
herself has feelings for
many people at once, then she shouldn't expect
others to only have feelings for her.
Do you agree?  Don't
think so much about it.  We have to see ourselves in
this way, and we also have to know that others see us the same way
.  So, here's the thing:
my feelings aren't wrong, kids
.  No errors.  It's perfectly fine for
someone to naturally develop feelings for this person or that person; those feelings come
naturally.  So how do
we deal with this emotion? In
what way does it become a mistake?
Do you understand?  That means your heart
naturally likes person A, likes person B,
likes person C, and so on, even liking person C all at once is
fine.
It's because that person likes it, and we ca
n't forbid them from doing it.  For example, it's the same with
us. For instance, before she came in
here, she hadn't seen this or that flower,
so she hadn't developed any liking for it,
right?  But when
she came in and saw this vase, she suddenly felt a
liking for it because it suited her taste.  So, we can't
control what we like, so why should we be
sad about it, right?  There.
But because she liked the vase, she wanted to
hug it, but she couldn't.  The
vase should be on the table.  If she were to
hug it now, it wouldn't be appropriate.  You guys
saw that it wasn't right, so I didn't do it,
right?  There.   Well, the same goes for this
.  Does that mean if
we only take care of ourselves, we can take care of
others?  Right?  I was already
interested in several people, but then someone came and
asked me out, and I immediately accepted.  Well,
I don't even know how to take care of myself
because I don't even know who I like yet.
Five people all liked it.  I accepted one
person's offer, then the next day I realized that person was
bad, while I found the other four to be
better.  So, let's just assume that if your feet
move, you don't need to look back?  Look back.  That
's not happiness.  So, the
teacher asked, "
Yes, sir."  Thank you, ma'am.
With what
she just shared, you understand that it
means quietly getting to know many
people, right? It's not about going around
and making advances to one person, then another, then five or
six people at once. That's what you call a greedy
man, and that's exactly what I'm talking about.
This is called having
feelings, and we should observe until we're
mature enough with someone. Only then should we decide how mature we are and
bring up the subject.  Otherwise, he would
become a greedy man.